README.md, before:

# Bing COVID-19 Current Data

### Retrieves the current data shown on [Bing's COVID-19 Tracker](https://www.bing.com/covid) and made into a JSON file for usage found [here](https://maanuj-vora.github.io/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/currentData.json).

---

![Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/Maanuj-Vora/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data?style=for-the-badge)
![Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/Maanuj-Vora/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data?style=for-the-badge)
![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/Maanuj-Vora/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data?style=for-the-badge)
![Watchers](https://img.shields.io/github/watchers/Maanuj-Vora/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data?style=for-the-badge)

![Retrieve Data Hourly](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/Maanuj-Vora/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/Retrieve%20Data%20Hourly?label=Retrieve%20Data%20Hourly&style=for-the-badge)

![Contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/Maanuj-Vora/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data?style=for-the-badge)
![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Maanuj-Vora/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data?logo=MIT&style=for-the-badge)
![Repo Size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/Maanuj-Vora/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data?style=for-the-badge)

![Made With Javascript](https://forthebadge.com/images/badges/made-with-javascript.svg)

---

#### All data will be updated hourly, if the 'Retrieve Data Hourly' badge has the value 'passing'.

#### Site Implementation [Here](https://maanuj-vora.github.io/coronavirus-statistics/currentData.html).

## 🚩 Table of Contents

- [Used By](#used-by)
- [Link for all JSONs](#link-for-all-jsons)
- [Usage Info](#usage-info)
- [License](#license)

---

Bing retrieves their data from multiple sources including
 - [CDC](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/index.html)
 - [WHO](https://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019)
 - [ECDC](https://www.ecdc.europa.eu/en/novel-coronavirus-china)

---

### Used By

Website(Repo)

[+ Add yours](https://github.com/Maanuj-Vora/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/edit/master/README.md)

---

### Link for all JSONs

[Current Data](https://maanuj-vora.github.io/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/currentData.json)


[All Names and IDs](https://maanuj-vora.github.io/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/allNamesIDs.json)


[Major(Country) Names and IDs](https://maanuj-vora.github.io/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/countryNamesIDs.json)*

*If you use the Major(Country) Names and IDs, the order of the countrys/areas are in from most impacted to least impacted


This repository also archives the data each day, and since Bing only provides us with daily data, I do not have access to prior data as of 3/22/2020, but you can access anything from 3/22/2020 onwards, all of these files will be located in the [/docs/archived/](docs/archived/) directory. To use the link you would have to do [https://maanuj-vora.github.io/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/archived/mm-dd-yyyy.json](https://maanuj-vora.github.io/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/archived/3-22-2020.json)*. 

```javascript

let d = new Date();
strDate = (((d.toLocaleDateString()).replace("/", "-")).replace("/", "-"));

fetch(`https://maanuj-vora.github.io/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/archived/${strDate}.json`)
        .then(response => response.json())
        .then(data => {
            //Blah Blah
        });
```

And if you want to access the day before, this code may come in handy
```javascript
let d = new Date();
strDate = (((d.toLocaleDateString()).replace("/", "-")).replace("/", "-"));
console.log(strDate);

var yesterday = new Date()
yesterday.setDate(d.getDate() - 1);
strDate = (((yesterday.toLocaleDateString()).replace("/", "-")).replace("/", "-"));
console.log(strDate);
```

*Note that for the month, you do not need to include a 0 if it is a single digit month.

All timestamps done are in GMT(UTC)

---

Examples of data retrieval can be found in the [examples](examples/) directory

Usage samples and formatting for jsons can be found at the bottom of the README.md

---

If you have any suggestions, feel free to open up an issue, or make a pull request

---

### Usage Info

Sample Usage of Retrieving Data of Specific Area using either [all ids](docs/allNamesIDs.json) or [major ids](docs/countryNamesIDs.json).
```javascript
function getAreaData(id) {
    fetch("https://maanuj-vora.github.io/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/currentData.json")
        .then(response => response.json())
        .then(data => {

            var displayName;
            var totalConfirmed;
            var totalDeaths;
            var totalRecovered;
            var lastUpdated;
            var lat;
            var long;
            var parentId;

            if (id == data.id) {
                displayName = (data.displayName);
                totalConfirmed = (data.totalConfirmed);
                totalDeaths = (data.totalDeaths);
                totalRecovered = (data.totalRecovered);
                lastUpdated = (data.lastUpdated);
                lat = (data.lat);
                long = (data.long);
                parentId = (data.parentId);
            }

            else {
                loop1:
                for (y = 0; y < data["areas"].length; y++) {

                    if (id == data["areas"][y].id) {
                        displayName = (data["areas"][y].displayName);
                        totalConfirmed = (data["areas"][y].totalConfirmed);
                        totalDeaths = (data["areas"][y].totalDeaths);
                        totalRecovered = (data["areas"][y].totalRecovered);
                        lastUpdated = (data["areas"][y].lastUpdated);
                        lat = (data["areas"][y].lat);
                        long = (data["areas"][y].long);
                        parentId = (data["areas"][y].parentId);
                        break loop1;
                    }

                    if (data["areas"][y]["areas"].length != 0) {
                        loop2:
                        for (z = 0; z < data["areas"][y]["areas"].length; z++) {

                            if (id == data["areas"][y]["areas"][z].id) {
                                displayName = (data["areas"][y]["areas"][z].displayName);
                                totalConfirmed = (data["areas"][y]["areas"][z].totalConfirmed);
                                totalDeaths = (data["areas"][y]["areas"][z].totalDeaths);
                                totalRecovered = (data["areas"][y]["areas"][z].totalRecovered);
                                lastUpdated = (data["areas"][y]["areas"][z].lastUpdated);
                                lat = (data["areas"][y]["areas"][z].lat);
                                long = (data["areas"][y]["areas"][z].long);
                                parentId = (data["areas"][y]["areas"][z].parentId);
                                break loop1;
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
            }

            console.log(id);
            console.log(displayName);
            console.log(totalConfirmed);
            console.log(totalDeaths);
            console.log(totalRecovered);
            console.log(lastUpdated);
            console.log(lat);
            console.log(long);
            console.log(parentId);
        });
}
```

Usage for getting all ids and accompanying displayNames
```javascript
fetch("https://maanuj-vora.github.io/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/allNamesIDs.json")
        .then(response => response.json())
        .then(data => {
            var id = data["id"];
            var displayName = data["displayName"];
            
            console.log(id);
            console.log(displayName);
        });
```

Format for data json
```
{
  "id": "world",
  "displayName": "Global",
  "areas": [
    {
      "id": "italy",
      "displayName": "Italy",
      "areas": [],
      "totalConfirmed": 59138,
      "totalDeaths": 5476,
      "totalRecovered": 7024,
      "lastUpdated": "2020-03-22T22:59:14.807Z",
      "lat": 43.529028,
      "long": 12.162184,
      "parentId": "world"
    },
    {
      "id": "unitedstates",
      "displayName": "United States",
      "areas": [
        {
          "id": "alabama_unitedstates",
          "displayName": "Alabama",
          "areas": [
            {
              "id": "baldwin_alabama_unitedstates",
              "displayName": "Baldwin",
              "areas": [],
              "totalConfirmed": 2,
              "totalDeaths": 0,
              "totalRecovered": 0,
              "lat": 30.688270568847656,
              "long": -87.74720764160156,
              "parentId": "alabama_unitedstates"
            }...
        }
      ],
      "totalConfirmed": 33382,
      "totalDeaths": 417,
      "totalRecovered": 178,
      "lastUpdated": "2020-03-22T22:59:14.807Z",
      "lat": 39.495915,
      "long": -98.989979,
      "parentId": "world"
    }...
    ],
  "totalConfirmed": 335403,
  "totalDeaths": 14611,
  "totalRecovered": 97636,
  "lastUpdated": "2020-03-22T22:59:14.807Z"
}
```

Format for id and displayNames json
```
{
  "id": [
    "world",
    "chinamainland",
    "italy",
    "unitedstates",
    ...
  ],
  "displayName": [
    "Global",
    "China (mainland)",
    "Italy",
    "United States",
    ...
  ]
}
```

---

### License

```
MIT License

Copyright (c) 2020 Maanuj Vora

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
```

---

Commit message:

Now Included Old Data found in docs/allData.json
https://maanuj-vora.github.io/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/allData.json

README.md, after:

# Bing COVID-19 Current Data and Past Data

### Retrieves the current data and stores past data shown on [Bing's COVID-19 Tracker](https://www.bing.com/covid) and made into a JSON files.

---

![Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/Maanuj-Vora/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data?style=for-the-badge)
![Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/Maanuj-Vora/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data?style=for-the-badge)
![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/Maanuj-Vora/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data?style=for-the-badge)
![Watchers](https://img.shields.io/github/watchers/Maanuj-Vora/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data?style=for-the-badge)

![Retrieve Data Hourly](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/Maanuj-Vora/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/Retrieve%20Data%20Hourly?label=Retrieve%20Data%20Hourly&style=for-the-badge)

![Contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/Maanuj-Vora/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data?style=for-the-badge)
![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/Maanuj-Vora/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data?logo=MIT&style=for-the-badge)
![Repo Size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/Maanuj-Vora/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data?style=for-the-badge)

![Made With Javascript](https://forthebadge.com/images/badges/made-with-javascript.svg)

---

#### All data will be updated hourly, if the 'Retrieve Data Hourly' badge has the value 'passing'.

#### Site Implementation [Here](https://maanuj-vora.github.io/coronavirus-statistics/currentData.html).

## 🚩 Table of Contents

- [Used By](#used-by)
- [Link for all JSONs](#link-for-all-jsons)
- [Usage Info](#usage-info)
- [License](#license)

---

Bing retrieves their data from multiple sources including
 - [CDC](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/index.html)
 - [WHO](https://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019)
 - [ECDC](https://www.ecdc.europa.eu/en/novel-coronavirus-china)

---

### Used By

Website(Repo)

[+ Add yours](https://github.com/Maanuj-Vora/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/edit/master/README.md)

---

### Link for all JSONs

[All Data](https://maanuj-vora.github.io/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/allData.json)

[Current Data](https://maanuj-vora.github.io/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/currentData.json)


[All Names and IDs](https://maanuj-vora.github.io/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/allNamesIDs.json)


[Major(Country) Names and IDs](https://maanuj-vora.github.io/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/countryNamesIDs.json)*

*If you use the Major(Country) Names and IDs, the order of the countrys/areas are in from most impacted to least impacted


This repository also archives the data each day, and since Bing only provides us with daily data, I do not have access to prior data as of 3/22/2020, but you can access anything from 3/22/2020 onwards, all of these files will be located in the [/docs/archived/](docs/archived/) directory. To use the link you would have to do [https://maanuj-vora.github.io/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/archived/mm-dd-yyyy.json](https://maanuj-vora.github.io/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/archived/3-22-2020.json)*. 

```javascript

let d = new Date();
strDate = (((d.toLocaleDateString()).replace("/", "-")).replace("/", "-"));

fetch(`https://maanuj-vora.github.io/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/archived/${strDate}.json`)
        .then(response => response.json())
        .then(data => {
            //Blah Blah
        });
```

And if you want to access the day before, this code may come in handy
```javascript
let d = new Date();
strDate = (((d.toLocaleDateString()).replace("/", "-")).replace("/", "-"));
console.log(strDate);

var yesterday = new Date()
yesterday.setDate(d.getDate() - 1);
strDate = (((yesterday.toLocaleDateString()).replace("/", "-")).replace("/", "-"));
console.log(strDate);
```

*Note that for the month, you do not need to include a 0 if it is a single digit month.

All timestamps done are in GMT(UTC)

---

Examples of data retrieval can be found in the [examples](examples/) directory

Usage samples and formatting for jsons can be found at the bottom of the README.md

---

If you have any suggestions, feel free to open up an issue, or make a pull request

---

### Usage Info

Sample Usage of Retrieving Data of Specific Area using either [all ids](docs/allNamesIDs.json) or [major ids](docs/countryNamesIDs.json).
```javascript
function getAreaData(id) {
    fetch("https://maanuj-vora.github.io/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/currentData.json")
        .then(response => response.json())
        .then(data => {

            var displayName;
            var totalConfirmed;
            var totalDeaths;
            var totalRecovered;
            var lastUpdated;
            var lat;
            var long;
            var parentId;

            if (id == data.id) {
                displayName = (data.displayName);
                totalConfirmed = (data.totalConfirmed);
                totalDeaths = (data.totalDeaths);
                totalRecovered = (data.totalRecovered);
                lastUpdated = (data.lastUpdated);
                lat = (data.lat);
                long = (data.long);
                parentId = (data.parentId);
            }

            else {
                loop1:
                for (y = 0; y < data["areas"].length; y++) {

                    if (id == data["areas"][y].id) {
                        displayName = (data["areas"][y].displayName);
                        totalConfirmed = (data["areas"][y].totalConfirmed);
                        totalDeaths = (data["areas"][y].totalDeaths);
                        totalRecovered = (data["areas"][y].totalRecovered);
                        lastUpdated = (data["areas"][y].lastUpdated);
                        lat = (data["areas"][y].lat);
                        long = (data["areas"][y].long);
                        parentId = (data["areas"][y].parentId);
                        break loop1;
                    }

                    if (data["areas"][y]["areas"].length != 0) {
                        loop2:
                        for (z = 0; z < data["areas"][y]["areas"].length; z++) {

                            if (id == data["areas"][y]["areas"][z].id) {
                                displayName = (data["areas"][y]["areas"][z].displayName);
                                totalConfirmed = (data["areas"][y]["areas"][z].totalConfirmed);
                                totalDeaths = (data["areas"][y]["areas"][z].totalDeaths);
                                totalRecovered = (data["areas"][y]["areas"][z].totalRecovered);
                                lastUpdated = (data["areas"][y]["areas"][z].lastUpdated);
                                lat = (data["areas"][y]["areas"][z].lat);
                                long = (data["areas"][y]["areas"][z].long);
                                parentId = (data["areas"][y]["areas"][z].parentId);
                                break loop1;
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
            }

            console.log(id);
            console.log(displayName);
            console.log(totalConfirmed);
            console.log(totalDeaths);
            console.log(totalRecovered);
            console.log(lastUpdated);
            console.log(lat);
            console.log(long);
            console.log(parentId);
        });
}
```

Usage for getting all ids and accompanying displayNames
```javascript
fetch("https://maanuj-vora.github.io/Bing-COVID-19-Current-Data/allNamesIDs.json")
        .then(response => response.json())
        .then(data => {
            var id = data["id"];
            var displayName = data["displayName"];
            
            console.log(id);
            console.log(displayName);
        });
```

Format for data json
```
{
  "id": "world",
  "displayName": "Global",
  "areas": [
    {
      "id": "italy",
      "displayName": "Italy",
      "areas": [],
      "totalConfirmed": 59138,
      "totalDeaths": 5476,
      "totalRecovered": 7024,
      "lastUpdated": "2020-03-22T22:59:14.807Z",
      "lat": 43.529028,
      "long": 12.162184,
      "parentId": "world"
    },
    {
      "id": "unitedstates",
      "displayName": "United States",
      "areas": [
        {
          "id": "alabama_unitedstates",
          "displayName": "Alabama",
          "areas": [
            {
              "id": "baldwin_alabama_unitedstates",
              "displayName": "Baldwin",
              "areas": [],
              "totalConfirmed": 2,
              "totalDeaths": 0,
              "totalRecovered": 0,
              "lat": 30.688270568847656,
              "long": -87.74720764160156,
              "parentId": "alabama_unitedstates"
            }...
        }
      ],
      "totalConfirmed": 33382,
      "totalDeaths": 417,
      "totalRecovered": 178,
      "lastUpdated": "2020-03-22T22:59:14.807Z",
      "lat": 39.495915,
      "long": -98.989979,
      "parentId": "world"
    }...
    ],
  "totalConfirmed": 335403,
  "totalDeaths": 14611,
  "totalRecovered": 97636,
  "lastUpdated": "2020-03-22T22:59:14.807Z"
}
```

Format for id and displayNames json
```
{
  "id": [
    "world",
    "chinamainland",
    "italy",
    "unitedstates",
    ...
  ],
  "displayName": [
    "Global",
    "China (mainland)",
    "Italy",
    "United States",
    ...
  ]
}
```

---

### License

```
MIT License

Copyright (c) 2020 Maanuj Vora

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
```

---
